Tech

Reviews

Science

Entertainment

AI

Policy

Hamburger Navigation Button

Login / Sign Up

Amazon

Apple

Facebook

Google

Microsoft

Samsung

Business

See all tech

Smart Home Reviews

Phone Reviews

Tablet Reviews

Headphone Reviews

See all reviews

Space

Energy

Environment

Health

See all science

TV Shows

Movies

Audio

See all entertainment

OpenAI

Anthropic

See all AI

Antitrust

Politics

Law

Security

See all policy

Laptops

Phones

TVs

Headphones

Speakers

Wearables

See all gadgets

Buying Guides

Deals

Gift Guides

See all shopping

Xbox

PlayStation

Nintendo

See all gaming

Disney

HBO

Netflix

YouTube

Creators

See all streaming

Electric Cars

Autonomous Cars

Ride-sharing

Scooters

See all transportation

Features

TikTok

YouTube

Instagram

Decoder

The Vergecast

Version History

Newsletters

Archives

Store

Verge Product Updates

Facebook

Threads

Instagram

Youtube

RSS

Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.

See All Gadgets

Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.

See All Tech

Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.

See All Headphones

Shokz’s bassy OpenRun Pro 2 are $40 off thanks to a new Mother’s Day promo

You shouldn’t have to sacrifice that low-end oomph just because you intend to cross the street.

You shouldn’t have to sacrifice that low-end oomph just because you intend to cross the street.

Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.

See All by Sheena Vasani

Link

Share

If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement.

Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.

See All by Sheena Vasani

If you’re looking to pick up a pair of open-ear headphones for yourself — or your mom — Shokz is running a Mother’s Day sale. Now through May 10th, the company’s best pair of bone conduction headphones, the OpenRun Pro 2, are available from Amazon, Best Buy, and Shokz for around $139.95 ($40 off), their lowest price of the year. If you purchase direct, you’ll also receive a free waist bag (a $29.99 value).

Shokz OpenRun Pro 2

While traditional headphones tend to block out the world, open-style headphones provide a safer alternative, letting you listen to music and podcasts while remaining vigilant. After testing the OpenRun Pro 2, The Verge’s Victoria Song said using them felt “like the stars finally aligning.” Unlike many open-ear headphones, they don’t skimp on bass or clarity thanks to a dedicated air conduction speaker, though they still won’t rival a traditional pair of in-ears when it comes to sound quality. Still, they’re more comfortable than earlier Shokz models, with flexible ear hooks and a lightweight neckband that creates a secure, natural fit, even for those who wear glasses.

Related

Birdfy’s smart bird feeder is down to its best-ever price for Mother’s Day

The Verge’s 2026 Mother’s Day gift guide

Aura’s delightful Aspen photo frame is on sale for $30 off this weekend

The fact that the Pro 2 vibrate significantly less than other models is another highlight, as is battery life. They offer up to 12 hours on a single charge, which was enough for us to go nearly a week without plugging them in (they charge incredibly fast via USB-C, too). They also include AI-powered noise cancellation for calls (though results were mixed in our testing) and an IP55 rating, making them well-suited for both sweaty workouts and outdoor use.

Other Shokz deals to consider

Shokz OpenFit 2 Plus

The OpenFit 2 Plus are nearly identical to the OpenFit 2 we tested in June. The wireless earbuds feature the same open-style design, a set of onboard controls, and dedicated bass speakers, but they also support wireless charging and Dolby Audio.

Shokz OpenRun

The standard OpenRun are a lighter option than the newer OpenRun Pro 2, with a streamlined wraparound design, up to eight hours of battery life, and an IP67 rating for better water resistance. However, they don’t offer the same bass performance or USB-C charging.

Verge Shopping

Sign up to get the best deals on products we’ve found and tested sent to your inbox.

Posts from this author will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.

See All by Sheena Vasani

Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.

See All Deals

Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.

See All Gadgets

Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.

See All Headphones

Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.

See All Tech

Posts from this topic will be added to your daily email digest and your homepage feed.

See All Verge Shopping

Most Popular

Meta’s historic loss in court could cost a lot more than $375 million

Apple raises the Mac Mini’s starting price

How the internet’s favorite squirrel dad made the hottest camera app of 2026

These reusable digital Polaroids are a clever way to cover a fridge in memories

AI music is flooding streaming services — but who wants it?

Verge Shopping

Sign up to get the best deals on products we’ve found and tested sent to your inbox.

This is the title for the native ad

More in Gadgets

This is the title for the native ad

Top Stories

Facebook

Threads

Instagram

Youtube

RSS

Contact

Tip Us

Community Guidelines

Archives

About

Ethics Statement

How We Rate and Review Products

Cookie Settings

Terms of Use

Privacy Notice

Cookie Policy

Licensing FAQ

Accessibility

Platform Status

© 2026 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved