Apple

Store

Mac

iPad

iPhone

Watch

Vision

AirPods

TV & Home

Entertainment

Accessories

Support

0+

Apple Services

Apple Stories

Meet four emerging filmmakers  redefining the art  form with  MAMI Select:  Filmed on iPhone

Unlocking Expression in Motion with iPhone 17 Pro Max

Shreela Agarwal holds a camera rig with iPhone 17 Pro Max attached, filming outdoors at night.

iPhone 17 Pro Max on a camera rig is mounted on a tripod, filming a scene at night with a person sitting on a bench in the background.

Shreela Agarwal sits at a table with mentor Chaitanya Tamhane, looking at a MacBook Pro and having a discussion. iPhone 17 Pro Max sits on the table beside them.

previous

next

Staging Atmospheric Dream Sequences with Cinematic Mode

I felt like a moving studio. During preproduction, I’d record whatever I was hearing with the native mics on iPhone, transfer the file, and edit it right away on MacBook Pro.

Ritesh Sharma, filmmaker

A close-up of an iPhone 17 Pro Max screen in a rugged case, showing the camera app recording a person.

Ritesh Sharma stands on a grassy hill overlooking water, holding iPhone 17 Pro Max while filming.

Ritesh Sharma collaborates with a fellow crew member at a desk, looking at a MacBook Pro. iPhone 17 Pro Max sits on the desk next to them.

previous

next

Overcoming the Elements with Action Mode

Delving Deeper with 8x Optical Zoom

iPhone 17 Pro Max on a camera rig is set up in a studio environment, with a person standing nearby.

On set, Dhritisree Sarkar and her crew discuss a scene with an actor.

previous

next

Media

Text of this article

May 7, 2026

UPDATE

Meet four emerging filmmakers :br(s): redefining the art :br(s): form with :br(s): MAMI Select: :br(s): Filmed on iPhone

This year’s slate of innovative shorts showcases how new tools are changing not just the way films are made, but which stories get told

In telling the stories of a clandestine affair on the streets of Mumbai, divinity and humanity in Kerala, a young misfit navigating Goa’s vibrant beaches, and a Bengali woman terrified of losing her voice, the emerging auteurs included in this year’s MAMI Select: Filmed on iPhone program from the Mumbai Academy of Moving Image (MAMI) harnessed iPhone 17 Pro Max to construct short films with distinct cinematic languages.

“Filmmaking today is about vision, and iPhone makes it possible for anyone with a strong voice to create something meaningful,” says writer-director Sriram Raghavan, whose 2018 feature, Andhadhun, is one of the most decorated Indian films of the past decade.

Raghavan served as a mentor for this year’s program, alongside fellow industry luminaries Chaitanya Tamhane, Dibakar Banerjee, and Geetu Mohandas — winners of accolades from India’s National Film Awards, the Asian Film Awards, the Venice International Film Festival, and the Sundance Film Festival, to name a few. To make their shorts, filmmakers Shreela Agarwal, Ritesh Sharma, Robin Joy, and Dhritisree Sarkar tapped into the pro camera system, cinema-grade video capabilities, and advanced features of iPhone 17 Pro Max, as well as MacBook Pro with M5 and iPad Pro with M5 for additional support. Watch the four short films on MAMI’s YouTube channel.

“The possibilities iPhone opens up — in terms of choreography, movement, and ease of access — are redefining the art form,” says Tamhane, whose features Court (2014) and The Disciple (2020) earned recognition at the Venice Film Festival. “It helps push the idea of what a film can be.”

With last year’s Seeing Red crossing a million views on YouTube and Kovarty winning Best Short Film at the Bengaluru International Short Film Festival, MAMI Mumbai Film Festival director Shivendra Singh Dungarpur believes the program is having a ripple effect. “The fact that these films have been captured with iPhone has inspired hundreds of people to go out there and start making short films,” he says. “It’s creating a new generation of filmmakers.”

Unlocking Expression in Motion with iPhone 17 Pro Max

While her peers stepped away from other disciplines to pursue filmmaking, Shreela Agarwal did something stranger. She stepped away from filmmaking itself. A graduate of Singapore’s Lasalle College of the Arts, Agarwal put cinema aside to chase her dream of becoming a boxer. She competed at the national level and won gold.

At the time, it might have felt like a picture-perfect moment — but it turned out to be the end of her second act. “Two years ago, I suffered a career-ending injury,” Agarwal explains. “And then film pulled me right back in.”

After a friend tipped her off about the MAMI Dimensions Mumbai program, Agarwal’s competitive nature was stoked once more. Fittingly, her first film back was a boxing documentary titled BMCLD. Once again, she won gold.

Her newest film, 11.11 — “a love letter to Mumbai after dark” — tells the story of two women on a first date. In the script, her protagonists walk and dance under city streetlights and on dim beaches, presenting challenging lighting conditions.

“We tested iPhone 17 Pro Max in a very unique way,” says Agarwal. ProRes RAW data capture allowed her team to push the ISO in post-production. The high-performance codec has a wider color gamut with minimal upfront processing. Its wider dynamic range let her team recover details in dark scenes, leading to a significantly brighter and crisper image in comparison to what the naked eye saw on set. Adjusting the tint and white balance also allowed them to homogenize the colors of streetlamps and retain a natural look.

For aspiring filmmakers, the benefits of filming on iPhone aren’t just aesthetic — they’re also practical, Agarwal explains: “You don’t need those massive lights that independent filmmakers could never really afford anyway.”

Inspired by Tanztheater — an expressionistic blend of dance and theater championed by German choreographer Pina Bausch — with 11.11, Agarwal needed access to a full range of camera motion. iPhone 17 Pro Max allowed her to glide right alongside her actors, and with the camera system’s internal stabilization, she could even climb giant rocks on the beach with them.

“The dynamism and rhythm are only possible because of iPhone,” Agarwal says. “The freedom, simply put, is unmatched.”

Staging Atmospheric Dream Sequences with Cinematic Mode

Growing up in Varanasi — one of the world’s oldest continuously inhabited cities — Ritesh Sharma was immersed in a rich tradition of storytelling. He credits his origins as a street theater performer for paving the way for his pivot to filmmaking: “As an actor, I realized early on the power of directing the audience.”

Sharma — whose Jhini Bini Chadariya (The Brittle Thread) won Best Debut Film at the New York Indian Film Festival in 2021 — describes his storytelling style as an exploration of the space between truth and fiction. His MAMI Select: Filmed on iPhone entry, She Sells Seashells, follows Maruti, a 17-year-old Rajasthani migrant who sells trinkets on the beach, and her dream of stepping inside an upmarket seaside restaurant in Goa — a seemingly trivial act that becomes a study in dignity in the director’s capable hands.

iPhone 17 Pro Max allowed Sharma to draw the audience deeper into his protagonist’s mental state. “There are dreamlike sequences where we see Maruti’s internal world,” he explains. “Cinematic mode allows us to shift focus between her reality and what she is feeling.”

Whether he’s filming amid the crashing waves of the Arabian Sea or capturing the chaos of Goa’s carnival, sound design is vital for Sharma. The Audio Mix feature on iPhone 17 Pro Max lets him zero in on the sounds he needs, culling wind and background noise to create a precise aural milieu.

“I felt like a moving studio,” he says. “During preproduction, I’d record whatever I was hearing with the native mics on iPhone, transfer the file, and edit it right away on MacBook Pro.” On set and during post-production, his team also used Sidecar to co