AI

Directing
                        
                            \e606

Screenwriting
                        
                            \e607

Cinematography & Cameras
                        
                            \e605

Documentary
                        
                            \e603

Editing & Post-Production
                        
                            \e602

Movies & TV
                        
                            \e60a

Producing
                        
                            \e608

Distribution & Marketing
                        
                            \e604

Festivals & Events
                        
                            \e611

Fundraising & Crowdfunding
                        
                            \e60f

Sound & Music
                        
                            \e601

Grants, Contests, & Awards
                        
                            \e60d

Film School
                        
                            \e610

Games & Transmedia
                        
                            \e60e

Jobs
                        
                            \e60c

Marketplace & Deals
                        
                            \e60b

Off Topic
                        
                            \e609

This Site
                        
                            \e600

5 Incredible Movies Quentin Tarantino Helped Create but Didn’t Direct

Iconic movies shaped by Tarantino’s writing and creative input.

'Four Rooms' (1995)

Quentin Tarantino revolutionized cinema with his razor-sharp and witty dialogue, nonlinear storytelling, and penchant for genre mashups. Over the years, the name Tarantino has become synonymous with a high-octane brand of cinema that is most likely to provide an unparalleled cinematic experience.

Ever since the writer-director became a sensation in the 1990s, few have actually talked about the movies he was a part of but didn’t direct. Before Reservoir Dogs (1992) made him a household name, Tarantino had written many other scripts, some of which turned into movies soon after.

Many of these films, some of which came early on in Tarantino’s career and others later, carry a “Tarantino-esque” flavor. From romantic crime odysseys to experimental anthology movies, Quentin Tarantino entered various genres and forms to push the boundaries of moviemaking.

Here are five incredible films Quentin Tarantino was a part of but did not direct.

5 Films Shaped By Quentin Tarantino

Here are five movies the master filmmaker influenced from beyond the director’s chair.

1. True Romance (1993)

Directed by Tony Scott

Perhaps the most talked-about “wrote but didn’t direct” Quentin Tarantino film, True Romance, is a classic example of a fabulous writer and director of varied skill sets coming together to create something exciting. It is believed that Tarantino penned the movie as one of his earliest major scripts, which explains the similar brand of audacity we saw a lot more of in Reservoir Dogs. The film follows Clarence Worley (Christian Slater) and Alabama Whitman (Patricia Arquette), a couple on the run after a violent encounter with a mob. Tony Scott’s exceptionally slick direction, combined seamlessly with Tarantino’s raw, dialogue-driven script, created a new tonal language unfamiliar to audiences at the time. Tarantino’s witty banter and pop culture references only elevate the script’s heartfelt romance. Many consider this movie Tarantino’s greatest work, which he didn’t direct.

2. Natural Born Killers (1994)

Directed by Oliver Stone

Based on a story written by Quentin Tarantino, Natural Born Killers became something very different under Oliver Stone’s direction. While some similarities to True Romance are evident, even in Stone’s version, this story centers on two lovers, Mickey Knox (Woody Harrelson) and Mallory Knox (Juliette Lewis), a couple whose killing spree becomes a media sensation. The film’s core action themes echo what we have seen frequently in Tarantino’s directorial ventures, but without a heavy genre blanket. Though Tarantino “distanced himself” from this movie, it is not hard to find his raw energy and enthusiasm.

3. From Dusk Till Dawn (1996)

Directed by Robert Rodriguez

Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez’s friendship goes way back, before they became the filmmakers we know today. From Dusk Till Dawn, written by Tarantino, follows the Gecko brothers, Seth (George Clooney) and Richie (Quentin Tarantino), as they flee across the border. What starts as a crime thriller slowly becomes something far more sinister. Tarantino combines well with his old friend to create a strange, novel blend of crime and horror. While Tarantino hasn’t really taken up the latter as a genre in his directorial career, it is interesting to witness this “take” on such ideas.

4. Planet Terror (2007)

Directed by Robert Rodriguez

This was yet another collaboration with Robert Rodriguez; Planet Terror was essentially supposed to be a part of the Grindhouse double feature alongside Tarantino’s Death Proof. This zombie apocalypse horror-comedy is set in a Texas town where a mysterious biochemical outbreak turns people into flesh-eating mutants. In this film, Tarantino was both a creative collaborator and an actor. The film’s grainy, disturbing visuals and over-the-top gore blend with pulpy storytelling, something Rodriguez has done quite often in his films. Tarantino’s role is a cameo, but his collaboration with Rodriguez is evident. The gore does not, at any point, dampen the story’s pulpy elements. While this may be a lesser-known collaboration between the two filmmakers, it is a notable work in their shared filmography for its borderline experimental yet engaging storytelling style.

5. Four Rooms (1995)

Directed by Allison Anders, Alexandre Rockwell, Robert Rodriguez, and Quentin Tarantino

Perhaps the most structurally different project Quentin Tarantino has ever been a part of, Four Rooms is an anthology and a dark comedy set in a fading Los Angeles hotel on New Year’s Eve. Tarantino co-wrote and directed the “Man from Hollywood” segment, a tense, dialogue-driven film brimming with chaotic energy and relentless tension. In the movie, each segment brings a different tone, and together, all four segments and the ensemble cast create a novel experience. Tarantino’s segment stands out for its sharp wit, quietly escalating stakes, and an inherent sense of wit that we have grown accustomed to in his works.

Summing It Up

Quentin Tarantino’s contribution to cinema has been undeniable. Not only has he made a long list of terrifically exciting cinematic experiences, but he has also supported other filmmakers in doing similar things. These five films highlight Tarantino’s early genius as a writer and a creative force whose ideas transcended the directorial role.

Which is your favorite Quentin Tarantino movie? Tell us in the comments below.

Tarantino's Trick for Learning to Write Dialogue | No Film School ›

Quentin Tarantino's 20 Best Films of the 21st Century (11-20) | No Film School ›

These Are the 7 Movies Tarantino Calls "Perfect" | No Film School ›

Popular

How to Write the First 10 Pages Of Your Screenplay

The 25 Best Movie Monologues

DJI Introduces Its Latest Portable Power Station With 1kWh Power and Efficient Solar Charging

'Bugonia' Ending Explained: Unpacking Everything It Says About Humanity

The 'Man on Fire' Ending Explained

Latest

A "Forgotten" Camera Trick That Makes Action Scenes Pop

Light Your DIY Projects On a Budget With These Lume Cube LED Options

The Power of the Theme: Why Charlene Soo is Championing Melodic Film Music

Sofia Coppola Wants to Mentor and Fund Your Next Short Film (Here’s How to Apply)

Antigravity A1 Gets Voice Assistant, Timelapses, and Better Obstacle Avoidance With Latest Update