Apple

Store

Mac

iPad

iPhone

Watch

Vision

AirPods

TV & Home

Entertainment

Accessories

Support

0+

How to get Apple Intelligence

Apple Intelligence features are integrated across apps and experiences to help users communicate, express themselves, and get things done. Feature availability can vary by platform, language, and region, as noted.

Turn on Apple Intelligence

To get started with Apple Intelligence features on your compatible iPhone, iPad, Mac, or Apple Vision Pro, update your device to the latest software version, and ensure you have Apple Intelligence turned on in Settings under Apple Intelligence & Siri.

After you update your software, on-device Apple Intelligence models will start downloading; time to download varies. For the fastest model download experience, keep your device connected to Wi-Fi and power while models are downloading.

To access Apple Intelligence features on a compatible Apple Watch, ensure it is paired with an Apple Intelligence-enabled iPhone.

Device requirements

iPhone 15 Pro models, and iPhone 16 models or later

iPad mini (A17 Pro), and iPad models with M1 and later

Mac with M1 or later

Apple Vision Pro

Apple Watch Series 6 and later, all Apple Watch Ultra models, and Apple Watch SE 2 and later when paired with an Apple Intelligence-enabled iPhone nearby

System requirements

iOS 18.1 or later, iPadOS 18.1 or later, macOS Sequoia 15.1 or later, visionOS 2.4 or later, watchOS 11 or later

7 GB of storage on device (not required for Apple Watch)*

Device language and Siri language set to the same supported language

If you change Siri language, Apple Intelligence might become unavailable until the new Siri language fully downloads and matches the device language. If you turn off Apple Intelligence, the on-device models will be removed from your device.

*Learn how to free up storage on your iPhone, iPad, or Mac.

Supported languages and regions

With iOS 26.1, iPadOS 26.1, and macOS 26.1, Apple Intelligence features are available in most regions around the world on compatible iPhone, iPad, and Mac models in these languages: English, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish, Chinese (Simplified), Chinese (Traditional), Japanese, Korean, and Vietnamese. Some Apple Intelligence features are available in these languages with watchOS 26 and later when paired with an Apple Intelligence-enabled iPhone. Feature availability can vary by platform, language, and region.

With visionOS 26.1, many Apple Intelligence features are available on Apple Vision Pro in English, French, German, Italian, Chinese (Simplified), Chinese (Traditional), Japanese, Korean, and Spanish.

After you get started with Apple Intelligence, it will continue to work when you travel to other regions around the world.

For European Union residents

Most Apple Intelligence features are available with iOS 18.4 and iPadOS 18.4 or later on supported iPhone and iPad models, and with macOS Sequoia 15.1 or later on supported Mac models.

For China residents

Apple Intelligence features will not currently work for supported devices purchased in China mainland. For supported devices purchased outside of China mainland, Apple Intelligence features will not currently work if you are in China mainland and if your Apple Account Country or Region is also in China mainland.

When Apple Intelligence features are available in China mainland, previously purchased devices that support Apple Intelligence will be able to activate and use it in that region.

Apple Intelligence features

With iOS 26, iPadOS 26, and macOS Tahoe 26 and later, Apple Intelligence powers these features:

Live Translation in Messages1

Live Translation in Phone, and FaceTime2

Live Translation with AirPods (iOS only)3

Clean Up in Photos

Genmoji

Image Playground

Image Wand (iOS and iPadOS only)

Writing Tools

Siri enhancements, like product knowledge, more resilient request handling, more natural voice, and the ability to type to Siri

ChatGPT integration within experiences like Siri, Writing Tools, and Image Playground4

Intelligent actions in Shortcuts

Use Apple Intelligence models in Shortcuts

Smart Reply in Mail and Messages

Summaries in Mail and Messages

Notification summaries

Voicemail summaries5

Notes transcription summaries6

Create a memory movie in Photos

Natural language search in Photos

Suggested reminders

Auto-categorize in Reminders

Reduce Interruptions Focus

Intelligent Breakthrough & Silencing in Focus

Priority messages in Mail

Intelligent Poll Suggestions in Messages

Create a background in Messages

Enhanced order tracking in Wallet (English (US, UK) and iOS only)

Workout Buddy (English and iOS only)7

Visual intelligence on iPhone builds on Apple Intelligence to help users learn more about their surroundings and on-screen content. It offers these capabilities on Apple Intelligence-enabled iPhone models:

Interact with text, for instance to summarize it

Identify places with the iPhone camera8

Turn a poster into a calendar event

Identify plants, animals, and more

Ask ChatGPT4

Search Google and across supported apps

With visionOS 26 and later, Apple Intelligence powers these features across languages and regions where Apple Vision Pro is available:

Genmoji

Image Playground

Image Wand

Writing Tools

Compose with ChatGPT in Writing Tools4

Smart Reply in Mail and Messages

Summaries in Mail and Messages

Notification summaries

Notes transcription summaries6

Create a memory movie in Photos

Natural language search in Photos

Reduce Interruptions Focus

Priority messages in Mail

Create a background in Messages

With watchOS 26 and later, Apple Intelligence powers these features when Watch is paired with an Apple Intelligence-enabled iPhone:

Workout Buddy (English only)7

Live Translation in Messages1

Notification summaries

More personal Siri features are still in development and will be available in future software updates.

Learn more about Apple Intelligence

Live Translation in Messages supports English, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish, Chinese (simplified), Chinese (traditional), Turkish, and Vietnamese. Live Translation in Messages works on supported iPhone, iPad, and Mac, as well as Apple Watch Series 9 and later and Apple Watch Ultra 2 and later and SE 3 when paired with an Apple Intelligence-enabled iPhone.

Live Translation in Phone and FaceTime supports English (US, UK), French (France), German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese (Brazil), Spanish (Spain), Chinese (Mandarin, simplified), and Chinese (Mandarin, traditional).

Live Translation with AirPods works on AirPods 4 with Active Noise Cancellation or AirPods Pro 2 and later with the latest firmware when paired with an Apple Intelligence-enabled iPhone, and supports English (US, UK), French (France), German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese (Brazil), Spanish (Spain), Chinese (Mandarin, simplified), and Chinese (Mandarin, traditional).

Integration with ChatGPT is available only in regions where ChatGPT app and service is available. Refer to Open AI for ChatGPT availability.

Voicemail summaries are available in English (Australia, Canada, India, Ireland, New Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, UK, US), French (Canada, France), German (Germany), Japanese (Japan), Korean (South Korea), Portuguese (Brazil), Spanish (Mexico, Spain, US), and Traditional Chinese (Hong Kong, Taiwan).

Notes transcription summaries are available in English, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese (Brazil), Spanish, and Chinese (traditional).

Workout Buddy is available in English on Apple Watch Series 6 and later, all Apple Watch Ultra models, and Apple Watch SE 2 and later when paired with an Apple Intelligence-enabled iPhone nearby and Bluetooth headphones.

Visual intelligence capability to identify a place using the iPhone camera is available in Chinese, Dutch, Danish, En